2 NOVEMBER 2006, Sao Paulo, Brazil: The PostgreSQL Global Development
Group today announces the release of version 8.2 of the PostgreSQL
object-relational database management system. This 14th public release
adds features, maturity, and performance requested by business users,
delivering manageability comparable to leading enterprise database
systems.  Version 8.2 is expected to drive even more migrations
toward PostgreSQL.

"This release touches almost every command and database facility,"
said PostgreSQL core team member and EnterpriseDB database architect
Bruce Momjian. "It adds expanded, compatible syntax and interfaces
which have been requested by our community, making it easier for
new DBAs to fully use all of PostgreSQL's advanced features."

"Unisys is pleased to note significant enhancements in the scalability
and performance of PostgreSQL on large-scale multi-processor systems,"
states Ali Shadman, vice president and general manager, Open Source
Solutions, Systems and Technology, Unisys. "The newly released 8.2
version continues the maturation of PostgreSQL into a database
management system capable of enterprise adoption."

New tools and features to make database management and development easier include:

Performance improvements: version 8.2 improves performance around 20%
overall in high-end OLTP (online transaction processing) system tests.
Users can gain even more in data warehousing efficiency.  The changes include faster in-memory and on-disk sorting, better multi-processor scaling, better planning of partitioned data queries, faster bulk loads and vastly accelerated outer joins.

Warm Standby Databases:  through an extension to our Point in Time Recovery
feature (introduced in version 8.0), administrators now can easily create a
failover copy of your database cluster.

Online Index Builds: index builds can now occur while applications write to
database tables, allowing performance tuning without downtime.

SQL 2003 Features:  PostgreSQL, well known for standards compliance,
has added syntax for several more features introduced in the ANSI
SQL 2003 specification, including: statistical aggregates, multi-row
VALUE statments, UPDATE RETURNING and multi-column aggregates.

Advanced database features, being offered in PostgreSQL 8.2 before any other
major database system, include:

Generalized Inverted Indexes: support a more scalable and programmable
way of indexing semi-structured and full text data.

DTrace:  PostgreSQL has also been instrumented for Solaris DTrace and
other advanced tracing tools via the Generic Monitoring Framework.

"With data warehouse instances housing billion-row tables and multiple
terabytes of data, online index builds and hot-standby capabilities
are crucial," said Theo Schlossnagle, Principal at OmniTI Computer
Consulting. "We are also excited that PostgreSQL is now a first-
class Dtrace citizen.  This means our regular system analysis efforts
can now incorporate database-specific data leading to much more
meaningful results."

There are dozens of additional features and improvements in 8.2 which will
make PostgreSQL DBAs more productive.  See the press kit (http://www.postgresql.org/about/press/presskit82.html.en) for details.
Download PostgreSQL from our download page: http://www.postgresql.org/download

ABOUT POSTGRESQL: PostgreSQL is the collective work of hundreds of developers, building on twenty-one years of development which started at the University of California, Berkeley. With its long-time support of an enterprise-level feature set including transactions, functions, triggers, and subqueries, PostgreSQL is being used by many of today's most demanding businesses and government agencies. PostgreSQL is distributed under a BSD license, which allows use and distribution without fees for both commercial and non-commercial applications.
